Welcome back to digital
forensic concepts.
We're talking about
keywords in grep searches.
In this module, Module 2,
we're going to review
grep and extended grep.
Grep stands for global
regular expression print.
It functions on Linux and Mac,
GNU grep version 3.4
is the most recent.
Windows does have an equivalent.
It's called findstr,
F-I-N-D-S-T-R. Now when
we're talking about grep,
the syntax is we
have our options.
Then we would have
our search term,
and then we would
have the file name
of the file we're searching.
With the Windows
equivalent findstr,
the syntax would be flags,
which are very
similar to options.
Then we would have
our search term,
and then we would
have the path and
file name of the file
that we wanted to search.
We're talking about grep going
to go over some of the options.
The grep minus w means we're
searching for a whole word.
The minus i would be
case insensitive.
The minus n would show us
the line number of the hit.
So it would actually
print the line
number that they had occurred in.
The minus r is for recurrent
or recursive search,
and that would search a directory
recursively for our search term.
The minus l will list files which
search term matches and
that we could use when
we search the directory
with the minus r.
The minus lowercase c will list
the files with search
term matches and it will
list the number of hits
it finds in each file.
The minus b is for the
number of lines before.
Were going to be
seeing in our example,
we have a minus
before and that would
show us four lines before hit.
The minus A stands
for after the hit.
If we had in our example
a minus A 4 that will
show us four lines after our hit.
Now the minus C combines
both the B and A,
and it'll show us the number of
lines before and after our hit.
Now our operators, minus
E means extended grep,
and the syntax here is grep
minus E. Then our
regular expression,
what we're searching for,
and then our filename.
A d would be any digit.
A dot would be a
single character.
A question mark means
the preceding character
matches zero,
or one times only.
The asterisk means the
preceding character matches
zero, or more times.
The plus sign means
the preceding character
matches one, or more times.
The brackets you see here is what
allows a group of characters
to behave as one function.
The pipe symbol is
the logical OR,
and the upward caret signifies
matching at the
beginning of a line.
You'll see these will
all make more sense when
we look at an actual
regular expression,
which we will very shortly.
The dollar sign signifies
matching the end of a line.
The slash is the
escape character.
Now when we're using
the curly brackets,
we could have a
number inside there.
That's what the n stands for.
It means the preceding
character matches
exactly n times whatever
that number is.
If we had an n and a common m,
that would mean the
preceding character matches
at least n times,
but not more than m times.
Whatever numbers we put in there,
we could put in a
one, and a five,
and that would mean it
matches at least one time,
but not more than five times.
Now we have our square brackets
and we have characters,
or symbols inside them
what that means is,
the character is one or
more of those included
within the square brackets.
The character we're searching
for whether is a
letter or a number,
a dot or a dash would be one,
or more of the characters
we're searching for.
This included within
the square brackets.
Now if we use the upward caret
within the square bracket,
it means the character is
not one of those
characters included.
It would exclude the
a, the g, and the d,
if we use the upward caret
preceding them within
the square brackets.
If we have square brackets and
we're using a hyphen
between the c and the f,
this dash within the square
brackets operates as a range.
If I have a c and
an f as my range,
my search results
would be a c, a d,
an e, or an f, so all
the characters between c
and f. The difference
between grep, and e-grep.
In grep basic regular expressions
are meta-characters,
a special characters,
or operators lose their
meaning and they're
treated as normal
characters in a string.
In order for them to be
treated as special characters,
we need to use that escape
character before that to
signify that they are
being used as a special
character, or an operator.
In extended grep
regular expressions,
are special characters
like our brackets,
our or sign, our plus
sine, a question mark.
These characters
retain their meaning
and they're going
to be treated as
special characters unless they
are preceded by the
escape character.
In our next module we're
going to take a look
at using some grep expressions.